TO MAKE A JOKE.
IF YOU'RE GOING TO BE LIVE ON
ABC ENSO, THIS WILL BE AUDIO
AND VIDEO RECORDING IF YOU
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK OR DRESS
, I
CALL THE APRIL TWENTY THIRD
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION TO ORDER.
WE'RE GOING TO QUICKLY CALL THE
ROLL.
ALL RIGHT.
COUNCIL MEMBERS ARE HERE
CHARIKAR TO CLEAR COMMISSIONER
HERE COMMISSIONER MILGRIM
COMMISSIONER PIPKINS
COMMISSIONER GREEN RIGHT HERE
COMMISSIONER AND THE
COMMISSIONER BILL COMMISSIONER.
COMMISSIONER FRANCES TOWNSEND,
WE HAVE A.
THANK YOU.
GOT TO MOVE QUICKLY BECAUSE I
UNDERSTAND THIS MIGHT BE BRIEF
MEETING AND WE MAY LOSE A
QUORUM.
SO A COUPLE OF THINGS I'M GOING
TO ASK FOR A MOTION JOINT
MOTION TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
THROUGH THE MINUTES.
MAY I HAVE SUCH A MOTION PLEASE
SHOW ANY SECOND SECOND ALL IN
FAVOR OF THE BOTH MOTIONS
PASSED.
IS IT TIME FOR PUBLIC COMMENT?
YES.
SO PLEASE FEEL FREE TO COME ON
UP JUST LET ME KNOW WHEN YOU'RE
READY TO START.
YES, MA'AM.
I'M GOING TO START OVER VERY
SLOWLY, OK?
YEAH, I'M JUST GETTING STARTED.
I WAS JUST WONDERING COULD OH
MY NAME IS CORTLAND.
I'M GOING TO TELL YOU EVERY
STORY THAT I'M WAS BORN ON WAS
A RUN OF CITY.
I FOUND MYSELF IN FRONT OF CITY
JAIL FOR MY PART I'VE BEEN
TRANSFERRED TO DIDN'T BELONG
THERE BUT THERE I WAS THAT
SOMEBODY CALLED POLICE WHEN
THEY SHOULDN'T HAVE AND I WAS A
IN THIS NATION WE'VE EVEN HAD A
NATIONAL DISCUSSION ABOUT IT.
YOU CAN HAVE A NAME OR DON'T WE
THE YEAH THAT'S WHY I WAS IN
JAIL.
I STILL HAD TO PROVE IN COURT
AND DIDN'T HAVE ANY DIFFICULTY
DOING THAT.
BUT THE TROUBLE IS I HAD TO
SPEND NINE DAYS CITY JAIL
PUKING WATER WAS BECAUSE WHY
ALL THEY THOUGHT IT WAS
DANGEROUS.
IN FACT HERE WAS THEIR ARGUMENT
FOR HOW DANGEROUSLY HE SEEMED
AS IF MENTAL ILLNESS WAS
INVOLVED IN HIS DECISION MAKING
LOOK, I GUESS THAT THE PASSION
HAS A CONDITIONAL STATEMENT
KIND GRAMMAR THAT IS.
BUT YEAH, THAT WAS THE
JUSTIFICATION.
SO IN SHORT THEY WERE ARGUING
THAT THE REASON WHY THEY WERE
CHARGING ME FOR ASSAULT AND
BATTERY OR TO A MISDEMEANOR
FACT WAS BECAUSE I WAS MENTALLY
ILL AT THE TIME.
YEAH.
AND THAT'S WHY THEY WERE
PUSHING PAPERS IN FRONT OF YOU
FROM WOODRIDGE BEHAVIORAL
HEALTH BECAUSE THAT'S WHO
OFFERED MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT
IN FRONT OF CITY IN THAT
PARTICULAR JURISDICTION.
WHAT PART OF THE STORY?
THE POINT OF THE STORY IS WHEN
WE FINALLY WENT TO COURT THE
SAME COMMONWEALTH ATTORNEY
STARED ACROSS THE FROM THE
COURTROOM WHEN I WAS FIRST
HEARING MY CHARGES STARING AT
ME LIKE OK, I WAS SO GUILTY
WHEN WE FINALLY WENT TO COURT
SHE WASN'T SO CERTAIN AND
COCKSURE AND THE REASON WHY SHE
WAS STEREOTYPICAL DON'T CARE.
BUT THE REASON WHY BECAUSE SHE
CAUGHT WHAT I CALL CARE
PARANOID IS FOR MY ACCUSER.
MM.
YEAH THAT'S WHY I WAS IN JAIL.
KAREN, I KNOW ONE MADE UP A
STORY TO THE POLICE AND TO TOP
IT OFF EVEN ME TO GASLIGHTING
CLAIMING THAT I SELF BECAUSE I
HAD MENTAL ISSUES WELL THAT
WERE ALL TRUE THEN WHY DID THE
COMMONWEALTH TRY TO FORFEIT.
I REMEMBER LIKE YESTERDAY THE
COMMONWEALTH ATTORNEY'S OFFICE
DECLINED TO PROSECUTE NO A
PERFECTLY DON'T INCIDENT BAD
NOT GUILTY IN THIS COUNTRY AND
YOU WANT TO KNOW I GOT THAT
DECISION GOOD.
I PROVED MY POINT INSTEAD
OF THIRTY SECONDS.
SO IN SHORT THE REASON WHY I'M
NOT GUILTY IS BECAUSE FOR
INSANITY PLEAS LIKE FORCED
CONFESSIONS ARE NOT
CONSTITUTIONAL.
THEY
VIOLATE THE FIFTH
AMENDMENT OR SECTION SEVENTEEN
OR ONE OF THE MICHIGAN STATE
CONSTITUTION AND THAT'S WHY
YOUR OVERSIGHT COMMITTEE IS
WORTHLESS.
YOUR POLICE DEPARTMENT AND OUR
POLICE AND EVEN MENTAL HEALTH
CARE BE AN EASY CONVICTION AND
FILL QUOTAS FOR KNOW HEALTH
CARE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR TIME YANKEES
LIBERAL YOUR NOT OH MY
APOLOGIES IF I CALLED YOU NUTS
YOU THROW YOUR HAPPINESS.
THANK YOU.
WE ALSO DO HAVE A CALLER OK SO
I'M GOING TO GO AHEAD AND A NEW
CALLER COULD YOU PLEASE ON MUTE
YOURSELF AND IDENTIFY YOURSELF
BEFORE THE COMMENT YOU WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES.
HELLO.
I'M CALLING AND BEING IN ZERO
ZERO ZERO YOU ARE OF I KNOW
HIGH AGAIN CALLER HELLO.
YES.
IF YOU COULD PLEASE STATE YOUR
NAME FOR THE RECORD YOU HAVE
THREE MINUTES FOR PUBLIC
COMMENT.
I WOULD BE A CITIZEN OF THAT.
I WOULD MY AM I ABLE TO SPEAK
OUT?
YES.
YOU HAVE THREE MINUTES ALL SO I
WOULD BE YOUR ACTUAL CALLER I
WASN'T ABLE TO UNUSED MY MY
LAST MINUTE SO I WOULD LIKE TO
ESTABLISH THAT I HAVE A
LEARNING CURVE.
I THINK THAT IN ORDER TO
PROMOTE ITS ACCESSIBILITY YOU
SHOULD NOT ALLOW THE I WAS IN
2010 TO SPEAK OUT AT A PUBLIC
MEETING FROM FROM CITY HALL TO
THE TWO CARS AND IN ACTUALLY
PRESENT OFFICERS WITH ASSAULT
THAT WE GOT AT PUBLIC MEETINGS
WITHIN 24 HOURS.
I WAS SELECTED BY AN AND OUR
POLICE OFFICER LESS THAN 24
HOURS FROM SPEAKING OUT AT OUR
MEETING AND HE ADDRESSED ME BY
NAME AND I NEVER MET THE
PERSON.
I THINK THIS MAKES THE CITY
INOPERATIVE AND OUR POLICE
DEPARTMENT LOOK VERY
WELL-TRAINED AND MAKES ALL
OF US LOOK BAD WHEN YOU HAVE
OFFICERS ESPECIALLY THE
PRESIDENT OF THE UNION THAT HIS
EGO IS HERE, THAT HE IS
BASICALLY ADMITTED FOR SPEAKING
OUT ABOUT ME.
I THINK THAT THE ENTIRE POLICE
NEED TO REALLY HAVE A
SYSTEMATIC RETRAINING ON HOW
THEY REPRESENT THEMSELVES AND
THE YOU OF IN RESIDENCE BECAUSE
AS A LIFELONG NATIVE NRA
RESIDENT I THINK THAT HE
OBVIOUSLY THROUGH THEIR ACTIONS
OF RETALIATION AND PUTTING
THINGS LIKE SPEAKING OUT AND
THEN MAKES THIS ALL THE TIME
OF THE DAY.
THANK YOU TO GOD I I'M NOT SURE
I KNOW PEOPLE CAN MAKE
COMPLAINTS TO VERBALLY AND
THINK AND SO I THINK THIS THIS
THIS GENTLEMAN HAS MADE IT OK.
SO WE HAVE A PROBLEM WITH THAT.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
OK, MOVING ON CALLED YOUR
REPORT MY REPORT A COUPLE
OF THINGS OUR NEXT MEETING OUR
MAIN MEETING IS SCHEDULED FOR A
PUBLIC FORUM.
WE WANT TO INTRODUCE THE
COMMUNITY IN INTRODUCE THE
CHIEF TO OUR COMMUNITY AND WE
ARE SENDING OUT A LOT
OF INVITES.
SO WE ARE CERTAINLY HOPEFUL
THAT WE WILL GET A NUMBER
OF COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO COME
OUT AND THERE ARE SOME I KNOW
LAST TIME COUNCILPERSON
HARRISON HAD SOME SUGGESTIONS
AND I DON'T THINK THAT ALL
OF THEM SO WE'RE GOING TO PASS
THIS AROUND THIS PAST ONE THAT
WAY.
AND IF YOU HAVE IF YOU ARE ANY
ORGANIZATION I KNOW I'VE SENT
IT OUT TO EVERY ORGANIZATION
THAT THAT I KNOW OF AND I KNOW
COMMISSIONER HAYNES HAS REALLY
BEEN A BIG HELP AND IN GETTING
THAT GET THE WORD OUT SO YOU
KNOW, CHURCHES, CHARITIES,
WHATEVER CIVIC ORGANIZATIONS
AND I KNOW SOME OF THEM WORK
BETTER IF WE TAKE THEM SOME
WRITTEN MATERIAL THEY CAN PUT
ON THE BOARD OR SOMETHING.
SO LET US KNOW THAT THAT MIGHT
WORK BETTER THAN SOME OF THESE
ORGANIZATIONS BAN ON E-MAIL.
SO IF YOU WOULD PLEASE IN THE
NEXT DAY OR SO.
YES.
AND YOU NEED MORE TIME TO THINK
OF ANY ORGANIZATION YOU CAN
ALSO KNOW THAT WE NOW NORMALLY
MAY MEETING WHAT WOULD BE THE
TIME FOR SELECTION OF OFFICERS
CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR GOING
FORWARD THIS MAY I'M GOING TO
ASK THAT WE POSTPONE THAT UNTIL
JUNE BECAUSE OF THE PUBLIC
FORUM AND I WOULD ASK FOR A
MOTION TO MOVE THE SELECTION
OF CHAIR AND VICE CHAIR FOR
NEXT YEAR TO THE JUNE MEETING.
CAN I HAVE SOMEONE MAKE THAT
MOTION?
SO THANK YOU.
ANY DISCUSSION ALL IN FAVOR
OF ANY OF THOSE?
VERY GOOD.
SO WE WILL DO THAT AT THE MAIN
MEETING.
I EXPECT THAT THE MAIN MEETING
WE WILL HAVE AN AGENDA BUT I
EXPECT IT WILL BE VERY BRIEF
AND SO YOU'RE GOING TO BE ON IT
FIRST THE FIRST AND SO THAT'S
GOING TO TAKE UP YOU KNOW,
WE'LL CALL IT ORDER AND DO A
FEW THINGS AND HOPEFULLY WE'LL
JUST HAVE A GOOD SOCIAL VISIT
ON THAT OCCASION.
WHAT IS THE DIFFERENCE 28 OK,
WE DID GET AN INVISIBLE
SATELLITE INVITATION.
IT WAS A NOTICE.
YOU KNOW, I THINK I MENTIONED
THE LAST MEETING THAT THE EAST
LANSING OVERSIGHT COMMISSION
WANTS TO WORK WITH US AND THEY
ARE GOING TO BE HAVING SOMEONE
COME IN AND GIVE THEM A
TRAINING SESSION.
THE DATE ISN'T SET.
YES, IT'S A TRAINING SESSION.
THE TOPICS ARE GOING INTO THE
FOURTH AMENDMENT AND CRIMINAL
LAW BASICS LEVELS OF SUSPICION
WARRANTS WARRANTLESS STOPS,
SEARCHES AND THAT KIND
OF THING.
I DON'T KNOW.
I KNOW COMMISSIONER GREENE
DOESN'T NEED THIS KIND
OF REFRESHER BUT AND I MAY THAT
AS WELL BUT IF ANYONE IS NOT
FAMILIAR WITH THOSE BASICS
OF CRIMINAL LAW, I WILL LET YOU
KNOW WHEN IT IS SCARED IT'S
GOING TO BE THREE HOURS AND
THEY WILL PROBABLY BE THERE IN
LANSING.
BUT I WILL LET YOU KNOW.
SO LOOK FOR THAT INVITATION I
THINK WOULD BE REALLY NICE IF
WE COULD GO.
DID EVERYONE GET A CHANCE TO
LOOK AT THE NATCORE 13 NACOLE
PRINCIPLES OF EFFECTIVE
OVERSIGHT ONLY THIS ISN'T ONE
I'M SORRY I'M SORRY I I KNOW
IT'S ME.
I KNOW THIS IS THIS IS NOT
THERE ISN'T AT THE LAST MEETING
WE PASSED OUT NACOLE PRINCIPLES
FOR OVERSIGHT THAT I'M GOING TO
ASK US I GUESS AT THE GENERAL
MEETING NOW TO TAKE A LOOK AT
IT BECAUSE YOU CAN SIGN ON AS
AS A COMMISSION THAT HAS
ADOPTED THOSE PRINCIPLES FOR
OURSELVES SO THAT WE COME UP
AGAIN AT THE JUNE MEETING WE
DID WE HAVE HAD A COUPLE
OF INTERVIEWS.
WE HAVE ONE VACANCY AS WELL AS
OUR YOUTH NO VACANCY.
SO WE HAVE HAD INTERVIEWS FOR
THOSE AND I THINK THEY'RE ON
THEIR WAY TO COUNCIL SO BOTH
OF THEM YES.
WE'RE JUST WAITING FOR MORE
APPROVAL FOR THE NEW COMMISSION
.
THE ANSWER OK, SO HOPEFULLY
WE'LL BE UP TO UP TO FULL FULL
SPEED AND I BELIEVE THAT THAT'S
ALL THAT I CAN TODAY I'M GOING
TO ASK CHIEF ANDERSON IF YOU
WANT TO ADDRESS US AT THIS
POINT THE FLOOR IS OPEN TO
TO
THE ON TIME.
NO, NO, NOT AT ALL.
YOU DON'T WANT YOUR CARD.
I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
OPPORTUNITY.
YOUR COMMISSIONER IS HERE FOR
ALLOWING ME TO BE HERE TO SERVE
YOU AS AN HONORARY POLICE CHIEF
.
WHAT I FEEL COMFORTABLE WITH IS
THE RECEPTION THAT I RECEIVED
FROM THE MEN AND WOMEN POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND THEIR APPROACH
TO WHERE WE'RE GOING TO ADDRESS
MANY OF THE CHALLENGES THAT WE
HAVE IN THE COMMUNITY AS WELL
AS BEING COLLABORATIVE PARTNERS
WITH BIG TIME.
WE'VE HAD LOTS OF CONVERSATION
ABOUT WHERE WE WANT TO GO.
THERE'S A LOT OF VARIETY WITH
RESPECT TO HOW WE CAN MOVE THE
NEEDLE FORWARD.
I'M VERY PLEASED TO HAVE A
REALLY GOOD LEADERSHIP TEAM AND
ACTUALLY WE'RE HAPPY ABOUT
WE
REALLY WANT TO WORK WITH THE
COMMUNITY.
I REALLY WANT US TO EMBRACE THE
COMMUNITY AND I REALLY BELIEVE
IN YOUR MISSION BECAUSE I KNOW
WE CAN BUILD A COLLABORATIVE
PARTNERSHIP BETWEEN THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND COMMUNITY IN A
PARTNER AND I AM VERY HAPPY.
I AM VERY MUCH A SUPPORTER
OF THE COMMISSION BECAUSE I
BELIEVE THAT WHEN YOU HAVE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS COME TOGETHER
AND THEY HAVE A BODY OF WHICH
THEY FEEL COMFORTABLE TALKING
TO THE COMMISSION BECAUSE
PEOPLE DO NOT FEEL COMFORTABLE
TALKING TO THE POLICE AND YOU
CAN BE A CONDUIT TO HELP US
MODIFY, RETHINK AND REFORM
POLICE IN A WAY THAT ALLOWS FOR
THE TENOR OF THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT TO BE A MODEL AGENCY
ACROSS THE COUNTRY AND THAT IS
WHAT OUR GOAL IS THAT WE CAN
NOT DO THAT WITHOUT YOU IS.
SO WE'RE COMMITTED TO YOU.
SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU VERY AND AGAIN WE'RE
HAPPY TO SEE YOUR LEADERSHIP
TEAM WITH HOPE.
WE HOPE TO SEE A LOT
OF OFFICERS AT THE PUBLIC FORUM
WE TRIED ONCE TO SEND A MESSAGE
TO THE UNION AND WE DIDN'T HAVE
TO READ IT SO SO SO WE DON'T
KNOW HOW TO WE DON'T KNOW HOW
TO COMMUNICATE BUT WE KNOW SHE
CAN WE WE WE WOULD REALLY
APPRECIATE NEXT AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR THAT FOR THE OFFICERS TO
ALSO SO WE'RE GOING TO TRY AND
GET THAT INVITATION.
THANK YOU
.
NOW I'M TRYING TO SEE IF
THERE'S ANYTHING ELSE WE NEED
TO VOTE FOR AND A BUSINESS THE
OH OH WE DON'T HAVE ANY WE
DON'T KNOW ALL BUSINESS NO
BUSINESS DOES ANYBODY ANY
INFORMATION OR HAVE NO BUSINESS
THAT THEY WISH TO BRING UP.
I JUST I DON'T HAVE ANY
NECESSARY BUSINESS BUT I AM
CURIOUS AS TO WHAT THAT FORM IS
GOING TO LOOK LIKE.
YEAH.
WILL ANDERSON ADDRESS
ESSENTIALLY IF I CAN USE THAT
WORD AND IF NOT EXACTLY THE
WORD THAT I WANT TO USE BUT HOW
ARE YOU GOING TO ENGAGE THE
COMMUNITY?
WHAT ARE YOU LOOKING FOR FROM
THE COMMUNITY?
WE HAVE THE OPPORTUNITY FOR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO SPEAK WITH
YOU, ASK QUESTIONS, MAYBE EVEN
REGISTER CONCERNS.
ONE OF THE THINGS THAT I HEARD
A LITTLE BIT AGO AND IT MADE ME
GO BACK TO MY TIME WHEN I WAS
ON THE TASK FORCE AND WE HAD
TWO OR THREE COMMUNITY FORUM
AND WE HAD WE WENT TO OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS BECAUSE WE
FOUND THAT IN EACH TASK FORCE
MEETING THAT WE HAD THE
REPRESENTATION FROM THE BLACK
AND BROWN COMMUNITY WAS THERE.
AND WHEN WE QUESTIONED THAT
WHAT WE WERE HEARING FROM
ESPECIALLY OUR BLACK MALES WAS
THAT THEY WERE CONCERNED ABOUT
APPEARING AT THAT MEETING FOR
FEAR THAT THERE WOULD BE
RETALIATION FROM THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT.
SO I WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT
WHEN WE HAVE THIS FORUM THAT IF
ANY THAT WOMEN GET THAT FEAR
AND I DON'T KNOW HOW WE DO THAT
ESSENTIALLY WE BUT HAVING SOME
CONVERSATION WITH THE COMMUNITY
AND ALLOWING THE COMMUNITY TO
ACT TO SPEAK TO YOU WITH YOUR
LEADERSHIP AND BE VERY HONEST
WITH HOW YOU RESPOND.
SO I'M REALLY CONCERNED WITH.
IT REALLY HAS TO BE A PLACE
WHERE COMMUNITY MEMBERS ARE
GOING TO FEEL SAFE AND FEEL
THAT THEY CAN HONESTLY SPEAK TO
ASK QUESTIONS.
SO I DO LIKE THAT AND WHAT I
SEE IN THE POLICE DEPARTMENT
BEING IS PART OF A PROBLEM
SOLVING COMMUNITY WHERE WE WORK
COLLABORATIVELY WITH THE
COMMUNITY AND WE WORK TOGETHER
TO RESOLVE ISSUES.
ONE CONCERN I HAD FOR MANY
YEARS IS THAT HAVING THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT COME UP WITH WAYS TO
SOLVE PROBLEMS IN THE COMMUNITY
FOR THOSE WHO POLICE WITHOUT
HAVING THE PEOPLE THERE WITH
POLICE TELL US ALL THEY WANT IS
THE POLICE.
SO THOSE ARE THINGS THAT WE'RE
WORKING ON.
THERE ARE A COUPLE OF THINGS
THAT I THINK WE CAN DO TO HELP
BRIDGE THE GAP.
ONE THING THAT I KNOW FOR SURE
IS THAT OUR FIRST MEETING WE
WILL NOT GET THAT TODAY BECAUSE
IT'S JUST ONE MEETING AND WHAT
NEEDS TO HAPPEN FOR MY STAFF IS
WE HAD TO HAVE WHAT'S CALLED GO
INTERACTION.
THE MORE YOU FREQUENTLY
INTERACT WITH PEOPLE, THE MORE
COMFORTABLE YOU ARE.
SO THAT MEANS THAT WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO HAVE A SERIES
OF LISTENING SESSIONS FOR
LISTENING SESSIONS WITH REAL
COMMAND STAFF OR POLICE OFFICER
TOGETHER IN A COMMUNITY WHERE
PEOPLE ARE NOT AS COMFORTABLE
TALKING TO POLICE.
IT HAS TO BE IN AN ENVIRONMENT
WHERE THEY FEEL COMFORTABLE.
THAT HAS TO BE IN AN
ENVIRONMENT WHERE WE'RE NOT IN
POLICE UNIFORM.
BUT AT SOME POINT WE DO HAVE TO
WEAR WHICH PEOPLE GET USED TO
US AND WILL LISTEN THAT WE HAD
TO COME UP WITH SOLUTIONS.
BUT THE BIG THING FOR US AS WE
MEET WITH INDIVIDUALS IS TO
REALLY MOVE AWAY FROM JUDGMENT
TO MOVE AWAY FROM CREATING A
SITUATION WHERE PEOPLE HAVE
FEAR AND NOT ONLY BLAME THE
POLICE DEPARTMENT BUT BRING IN
OTHER ENTITIES INVOLVED IN
THOSE MEETINGS ARE PARTS OF RAY
WHICH WE'RE WORKING NOW WITH
WITH DIFFERENT COMMUNITY
MEMBERS THAT CAN BRING
WRAPAROUND SERVICES, OTHER
FOLKS THAT WE HAVE TO BRING TO
THE TABLE.
I PROMISED ASIANS ABOUT HOW
WILL THE COMMUNITY POLICING
MODEL BUT REALLY THE END OF IT
IS WHAT HAS TO HAPPEN IS LEAST
FOR ME WHEN I'M DEALING WITH
PEOPLE THAT LOOK LIKE ME THAT
THEY KNOW I CARE AND THAT'S
THAT'S THE MOST IMPORTANT THING
AND THEY HAVE TO GO ON FOR THIS
CARE BECAUSE WE CARE THAT CAN
RESOLVE A LOT OF ISSUES.
SO WHAT IS GOING TO TAKE TIME?
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO GET TO
WORK IN TERMS OF IN TERMS
OF HOW WE LOOK.
WE HAVE BUT I HAVE AN INVASION.
WE'RE GOING TO BE AT THE
LIBRARY WAS IN WEST NEW YORK
STATE REQUESTING A FRENCH AND
TO START AT SIX WITH RECEPTION
CALL THE MEETING TOGETHER
CALLED A MEETING AT SIX THIRTY
A.M. ABOUT 15 MINUTES OF IT
MAYBE NOT THAT LONG OF BUSINESS
AND THEN PART OF THAT BUSINESS
WOULD BE INVITING US AND THEN
HAVING I DON'T KNOW IF WE WANT
TO LIMIT IT TO THREE MINUTES
BUT HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
COMMUNITY TO ASK QUESTIONS OR
MAKE COMMENTS OR WHATEVER.
SO THAT'LL BE PART OF THE
AGENDA AND THEN FINISH WITH THE
REST OF THE RECEPTION.
CHIEF ANDERSON.
THANK I GUESS THAT THIS ONE
TIME IS NOT GOING TO BE ENOUGH.
IT HAS TO BE ONGOING.
I'M JUST VERY, VERY WELL.
I SHOULDN'T SAY I'M CONCERNED
BUT I WOULD HOPE THAT THAT
MEETING THAT PEOPLE WOULD FEEL
COMFORTABLE OF NOT AND HERE
THAT THE POLICE DEPARTMENT OPEN
TO HAVING ONGOING CONVERSATIONS
WITH WITH THE COMMUNITY AND
THAT THERE MIGHT THERE WILL BE
A WAY IN WHICH THAT CAN HAPPEN
.
BUT I THINK THAT WHAT I CAN DO
GENERALLY HOW THIS WORKS FOR ME
IN MY EXPERIENCE IS YOU HAVE
POLICE ADVISORY COMMITTEES
GENERALLY THE RECENT ADVISORY
COMMITTEE WOULD HAVE PEOPLE
BELIEVE THAT THE STEERING
COMMITTEE BUT I DON'T THINK
THAT THAT'S AN APPROACH THAT I
WOULD TAKE HERE IN ANN ARBOR.
AND THE REASON WHY IS BECAUSE
WE HAVE THE COMMISSION SO THE
COMMISSION SERVES WITH A BODY
BUT OUTSIDE OF THE COMMISSION
WHICH IS GETTING THE RIGHT
PEOPLE TO HAVE THE REAL
AUTHENTIC CONVERSATIONS AND THE
SETTING LIKE I SAID, THE
FREQUENCY OF TAKING PLACE
WHETHER WHERE THE PEACE CENTER
LIBRARY OR OTHER PLACES I HAVE
A LOT OF VERY, VERY GOOD STAFF
MEMBERS THAT I DON'T KNOW IF
PEOPLE HAVE ACTUALLY HEARD IT
VOICE I DON'T KNOW WHAT PEOPLE
ACTUALLY GOT AN OPPORTUNITY TO
HEAR ABOUT IT.
SO IT'S GOING TO TAKE MORE THAN
JUST ME IN ORDER TO MOVE.
THE MORE THE AMOUNT OF FORWARD
.
BUT AGAIN IT'S SETTING UP THE
MEETINGS AT AND LOCATIONS WHERE
PEOPLE FEEL COMFORTABLE
SOMETIMES WHERE THE POLICE
DON'T FEEL COMFORTABLE GOING
INTO PEOPLE'S RESIDENCE.
WE'RE DOING THAT NOW.
YOU KNOW, WE HAVE THE TERRY
MILLS NOW GOING TO TALK TO THE
PEOPLE WE'RE WORKING ON TALKING
TO PEOPLE NOW IN LOCATIONS
WHERE PERHAPS MAYBE EVEN POLICE
OFFICERS DON'T THE LINE BUT
WE'LL DO THAT AND WE'LL TALK
THERE.
WE'LL TALK TO PEOPLE WHERE
THEY'RE AT WILL TALK
AND WE'LL
WORK WITH THE FAITH BASED
ORGANIZATIONS.
WE'LL WORK WITH MANY OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS AND WE WILL JUST
BE AUTHENTIC AND GENUINE ABOUT
THE ISSUES THAT WE HAVE OVER
TIME.
WE HOPE THAT WE CAN MAKE THE
CHANGES BUT I KNOW AS I TALK TO
OUR EMPLOYEES ABOUT IS AND DO
OUR CAREER THERE WILL BE NO
LESS CONVERSATIONS THAT WE CAN
TALK ABOUT WHERE WE NEED
PERHAPS A SIGNIFICANT RISK IS
IN MANY TIMES WHEN THAT HAPPENS
WE HELP A VICTIM.
BUT REALLY THE TRUTH THE TRUTH
,THE SPIRIT OF YOUR CAREER
BECAUSE WHEN YOU CAN TALK ABOUT
HOW YOU TOUCHED AND CHANGE
SOMEONE'S LIFE AND THAT'S WHAT
I WANT US TO DO WELL WE
MODIFIED A YOUNG PERSON'S
CAREER PATH OR WE HELP SOMEONE
GET OUT OF A SITUATION WHERE
THEY NEEDED ASSISTANCE AND
THAT'S WHAT WE CALL TO DO IS SO
GAIL GALVANIZER MASPERO IN THE
LEADERSHIP OF OUR DEPARTMENT IS
WHERE I SEE THE ORGANIZATION.
BUT COMMISSIONER, WHAT HAS TO
HAPPEN IS IT'S GOT TO START
WITH THE THINGS THEY HAVE TO
SEE ME BEING A PERSON WHO HAS A
GREAT DEAL OF LOVE FOR PEOPLE
IN THE COMMUNITY.
BUT THE POLICE OFFICERS HAVE TO
SEE THAT I LOVE THEM AS WELL
AND THAT'S WHAT I EXPERIENCE
AND I THINK HAS STARTING TO
RESONATE WITH THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT BECAUSE I TALKED TO
PATRICK AND PATRICK TO SAY AND
I TELL THEM I SAY, YOU KNOW, I
WAS ABLE TO PUSH YOU TO BE THE
BEST BUT I'M NOT ALWAYS BE NICE
SO I WILL BE TOUGH FOR YOU AND
AND I THINK HE WOULD SAY THAT
AS THE CASE.
BUT I LOVE HIM.
I WANT TO DO IT YEARS AGO AND
ARREST RESTAURANT BUT THAT'S
WHAT I WANT TO BE IS A
COMPASSIONATE, AUTHENTIC LEADER
AND BUILDING A TEAM THAT'S ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT YOU
UNDERSTAND VERY EARLY ON BEFORE
WHEN HE FIRST CAME WAS YOU
KNOW, TELL ME WHERE YOU WANT TO
BE AND IT'S SOMETHING THAT THE
DEPARTMENT HAS SHOWN EVEN MORE
TO A COUNCIL MEMBER.
CHRIS BLACK.
I INVITED THE DEPARTMENT OUT
OF OUR NEIGHBORHOOD ASSOCIATION
HAS REREGULATED TO COME BECAUSE
WE'RE BUSY PARENTS.
WE HATE THE GANG SO WE NEEDED A
BREAK BUT IT WAS A GOOD
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE DEPARTMENT
TO COME AND MEET ME MEMBERS WHO
ARE HAVING THEY HAVE A LOT
OF QUESTIONS ABOUT THOSE LOW
LEVEL CRIME IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD
AND UNDERSTANDING WHAT THEY CAN
DO AND HONESTLY THEY THINK THE
RESIDENTS JUST WANT TO KNOW
THAT THEY WERE HEARD BEYOND
CALLING AND KNOW GETTING AN
INCIDENT REPORTED.
THEY WANTED TO KNOW IS THIS AN
ONGOING SITUATION?
DID YOU REALLY HEAR ME WHEN I
FIRST HEARD IT AND WHEN
OFFICERS CAME TO OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD PARK FOLKS HAD
TROUBLE IDENTIFYING THEM UNTIL
THEY FIGURED OUT THAT WAS THE
WAY THAT THEY STOOD UP BECAUSE
THEY WEREN'T IN UNIFORM.
THEY DIDN'T HE DIDN'T COME IN
LARGE CARS EITHER.
HE STOOD IN A CIRCLE AND HE HAD
THIS LIKE STAND.
SO THAT'S HOW WE WERE ABLE TO
HIM.
BUT I THINK THE MESSAGE WAS
THAT THE DEPARTMENT'S AVAILABLE
BUT WE THEY DO NEED SOME
GUIDANCE AS TO HOW THEY CAN BE
INVITED TO COMMUNITY.
SO MAYBE THAT'S AN EXERCISE WE
CAN DO NEXT MONTH, WHICH IS IF
WE HAD A SHOOT OUT THINKING
LIKE HOW WOULD YOU LIKE TO BE
ASKED WHERE WOULD YOU LIKE TO
BE COMPARED TO THE HOW WOULD
YOU LIKE OFFICERS TO SHOW US
HOW CAN THEY IMPROVE?
YOU KNOW, LIKE WE SEE THEM AT
COMMUNITY EVENTS COMPARED TO
SOME OF THE GROUNDBREAKING FOR
GAS THE CATHERINE HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT ON MONDAY AND THAT
WAS REALLY SIGNIFICANT BECAUSE
THAT'S THAT'S HOUSING THAT'S
TARGETED TO LOW INCOME
RESIDENTS.
SO FIRST I HOPE THAT WE HAVE
USING AFFORDABLE HOUSING
KNOWLEDGE FUNDS AND MILITARY
ENGAGEMENT IT WAS A REFLECTION
OF HISTORICALLY BLACK
NEIGHBORHOOD DOWNTOWN FOR
CHEAP IN THE COME OUT PRETTY
LOW KEY AND MEETING ALL THE
COMMUNITY MEMBERS WE WERE
PROJECTING THAT THERE WAS
REALLY SIGNIFICANT.
SO I THINK HOPEFULLY, YOU KNOW,
WE HAVE A BETTER CONVERSATION
WITH THE DEPARTMENT WHERE WE
CAN SAY IT.
NO, WE'VE HAD TO PUT UP CRISIS
THAT WE GET TO KNOW WHO WERE
THE OR LEADERSHIP.
IT'S ACTUALLY THE ONLY WAY THE
CELEBRATION OF COMMUNITY AND
WHEN THERE'S WHAT ARE THERE
TIMES WHERE THERE ARE NORMAL
ACTIVITIES FOR GET FOLKS ARE
COMING TOGETHER WE SHOULD THINK
IT WAS A WAY TO INVITE YOU ALL
VERY WELL.
THANK YOU.
I'M GOING TO I'M GOING TO JUST
DO ONE THING BECAUSE I BELIEVE
COMMISSIONER ANCESTRALLY AND
THERE'S ONE ITEM THAT WE NEED
TO VOTE ON WHILE WE STILL HAVE
A QUORUM AND THAT IS YES,
MA'AM.
OK, SO I DID MY SO YOU COMING I
WOULD LIKE TO BECOME A MEMBER
OF THE INTERNATIONAL CITY
COUNTY MANAGEMENT ASSOCIATION,
THE CMA FOR SURE THE I SEE MANY
OF THE WORLD'S LEADING
ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL
CITY AND COUNTY MANAGEMENT AND
OTHER EMPLOYEES WHO SERVE LOCAL
GOVERNMENT THE MEMBERSHIP
ANNUAL COST TO A MILLION AND
WILL BE INCLUDED IN STAFF
LIAISON PROTECTION STAFF.
THE COMMISSION WOULD NEED TO
VOTE AND IMPROVE THE COST THE
REDUCE FROM THE BUDGET AND THAT
IS WHERE I'M COMING FROM
BECAUSE OF MY JOB.
SO IS THERE ANY QUESTIONS ABOUT
THE ACMA I'M HAPPY TO SHARE AND
ANSWER AND JUST SAY TO THE
COMMISSIONER THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT I'VE WANTED TO DO FOR A
LONG TIME IN MY PROFESSIONAL
CAREER.
I AM EXCITED TO BE A PART
OF THIS ORGANIZATION AND
ASSOCIATION AND I THINK THIS IS
GOING TO HELP ME NOT ONLY SERVE
YOU ALL BETTER BUT TO SERVE
THIS COMMUNITY BETTER SO THIS
IS AN ORGANIZATION THAT AGAIN
FOR PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AND I THINK WE ALL KNOW THEY
SERVICE THAT IS COMING TO
PROVIDE TO NOT ONLY OUR
COMMISSION BUT ALSO THE HUMAN
RIGHTS COMMISSION AND THE
COMMISSION AND THE COMMISSION
ON DISABILITIES.
SO WE HAVE THE FUNDS IN OUR
BUDGET TO PAY THE YEARLY TWO
HUNDRED DOLLARS FOR OUR
MEMBERSHIP AND I WOULD ASK FOR
A MOTION TO APPROVE THAT
EXPENDITURE FOR THAT
MEMBERSHIP.
I WILL SUPPORT ANY DISCUSSION
ALL IN FAVOR OF ANY OF THOSE.
THANK YOU THAT IS DONE SO THANK
YOU MR. PRESIDENT.
GOOD EVENING
AT ALL.
WELL THAT'S KIND OF YOU JUST
YOU KNOW, PEOPLE IN YOU NEVER
SAW THAT.
KEEP IT IN MIND.
THANK YOU GUYS.
I REALLY DO APPRECIATE IT.
OK, SO I UNDERSTAND THERE'S NO
OLD BUSINESS.
IS THERE ANY NEW BUSINESS THAT
ANYONE IS AND WOULD LIKE TO
BRING NOW I'LL JUST PIGGYBACK
ON THE QUESTION RAISED BY
COMMISSIONER.
OH SURE.
I THINK THAT WAS AN EXCELLENT
QUESTION IN TERMS OF WHAT THE
PUBLIC FORUM FORUM TO LOOK LIKE
BECAUSE IT COULD BE A FORMAL
SETTING.
WE ARE IT PUBLIC FORUMS BEFORE
WE HAVE TO SHARE AND PAY FOR
OUR AND THE PROSECUTOR AND
THOSE ARE PRETTY FROM WHERE
THEY ALL SAT AT THAT TABLE AND
WE PRIOR QUESTIONS TOGETHER.
OK, WHAT IS THE ALSO VALUE IN
AN INFORMAL SETTING WHERE
PEOPLE CAN JUST MEET BUTCHY,
SHAKE HIS HAND, WISH HIM WELL
WITHOUT FIRING QUESTIONS AT HIM
BUT PEOPLE HAVE QUESTIONS THEY
WANT TO AND SO I'M THINKING TO
INVITE MIGHT BE BENEFICIAL TO
HAVE SOME KIND OF A HIGH LEVEL
WHERE IT'S QUITE INFORMAL BUT
WE REALLY NEED TO THINK ABOUT
WHAT WE WANT TO LOOK LIKE
BECAUSE HE'S ON THE JOB.
BUT I DON'T THINK IT'S FAIR TO
HIM ONCE THE PRIOR QUESTIONS
THAT ABOUT THE THERE ARE NO
PEOPLE WHO HAVE QUESTIONS AND
I'M DENHA ANSWER BUT THERE'S
STILL VALUE IN THAT AND JUST
GIVE ME THIS P SHAKE HIS HAND.
I WISH HIM WELL.
SO WHAT WHAT DO YOU WANT TO
LOOK LIKE.
I JUST YEAH JUST JUST GOING ON
THE BASIS OF WHAT WHAT WE DID
LAST YEAR WE WERE VERY VERY
SUCCESSFUL PUBLIC FORUM I THINK
WHERE I MEAN I THINK IT IS SORT
OF WHAT YOU DESCRIBE AND THAT'S
THE WAY YOU WERE DESCRIBING TO
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE RECEPTION
AT THE BEGINNING OR IT WELL,
BUT I DO THINK IF WE'RE GOING
TO LAST YEAR WAIT ABOUT FORTY
WE'RE OPENING MORE THIS YEAR.
YOU KNOW, I MEAN WE HAD A NICE
CROWD AND BUT I THINK PART
OF IT WAS PEOPLE PEOPLE DIDN'T
HAVE AN OPPORTUNITY TO GET UP
AND MAKE A COMMENT OR ASK A
QUESTION AND WE CAN YOU KNOW,
WE CAN MAYBE HAVE PEOPLE SUBMIT
A QUESTION AHEAD OF TIME SO WE
CAN CALL IN THEM AND WE CAN
SORT OF MODERATED.
BUT I THINK IF WE'RE GOING TO
INVITE PEOPLE AND I THINK IT
WOULD BE GREAT TO GIVE THE
PUBLIC THAT OPPORTUNITY TO DO
YOU KNOW, HOSTING FRIENDLY
QUESTIONS I BUT I THINK IF WE
CAN'T WE CAN'T GUARANTEE THAT.
BUT SO THAT'S THE WAY IT WAS MY
PLEASURE LAST YEAR WAS
APPROPRIATE IN THE PRESENTATION
AND THERE WAS ALSO A NEW
ORDINANCE AND SO PEOPLE WERE
REALLY INTERESTED IN QUESTION
AND ANYWAY, I THINK THAT'S WHAT
WE DID LAST YEAR.
JUST WHAT YOU'RE DESCRIBING
KIND OF A HYBRID AND I THINK IT
SOUNDS LIKE THAT'S WHAT YOU'RE
DONE.
THAT IS WHAT I HAVE IN MIND.
I THINK WRITING THE QUESTIONS
MIGHT BE A GOOD IDEA.
WE DID THAT BEFORE WE CAN.
WE HAD WE PASS OUT QUESTIONS IF
ANYONE HAD A QUESTION NOW WE
CAN DO IT THAT WAY OR WE CAN
HAVE AN OPEN MIC COME UP AND
TALK FOR THREE MINUTES.
I THINK.
WHAT'S YOUR PLEASURE?
I THINK IS IS THE NUMBER
OF PEOPLE TO BE OFFENDED.
THIS IS GOING TO BE QUITE THE
CROWD BE HAVING QUESTIONS OVER
THE SUBMITTED BY BY THE PUBLIC
THAT WOULD BE A GOOD COULD WE
DO IF WE HAVE LESS PEOPLE FEWER
PEOPLE ARE GOING TO BE ASKING
QUESTIONS.
MAYBE THERE'LL BE AN OPEN MIKE
.
MAYBE IF THERE'S A SITUATION
WHERE PEOPLE ARE HAVING INDEX
CARDS AND ACCOUNT AN
OPPORTUNITY TO FILL OUT A
QUESTIONNAIRE, THEN THE
MODERATOR TAKES AN HOUR MAYBE
TEN OR TWELVE AND ASKS THE
CHIEF THAT IT DOESN'T BECOME
DIALOG BACK OR YOU KNOW BECAUSE
YOU DON'T WANT THAT THEY CAN
AND IT CAN TURN INTO SOMETHING
FROM JUST WHICH YOU DON'T WANT
AND DON'T NOVOGRATZ OR MARGARET
HAS TO TAKE FULL CONTROL
OF THAT.
YEAH, I THINK THAT'S WHAT WE
DID LAST THURSDAY LAST NIGHT AT
THE PUBLIC FORUM.
SO WE DID HAVE WITH A BOX SO TO
WHERE IT GOES WHAT TO DO WITH A
QUESTION OUT OF BREATH FOR
THOSE WHO MIGHT ASK QUESTIONS
BUT LIKE IF THEY DIDN'T WANT TO
GET THEM TO SAY SOMETHING THAT
THEY COULD HAVE AND I WOULD
READ THEM ALL BUT A LOT
OF FOLKS AT THE LAST WORD TO
ASK THEM LIKE GET UP AND ASK
THEMSELVES WHICH IS OK.
BUT LIKE YOU SAID, IT'S THE
IT'S THE FIVE OPTION YOUR BOTH
OPTIONS, WHATEVER YOU ALL
PREFER BECAUSE OF THE SPACE AND
WHERE WE'RE HAVING THIS YOU
GUYS CAN SET UP ANYWAY YOU GUYS
PREFERRED YOU GUYS WANT TO DO
STICKY NOTES ON THE WALL.
DO YOU GUYS PREFER TO DO YOU
KNOW WHAT AREA PEOPLE CAN WRITE
OUT QUESTIONS OR HAVE A LINE SO
PEOPLE CAN COME IT'S OPTIONAL
WHERE WE HAVE OPTIONS TO MAKE A
SPACE INTO THE MEETING THAT WE
SEE FIT FOR THE COMMUNITY TO
HAVE OR ELSE.
SO THE IDEA IS TO MEET THE
CHIEF.
RIGHT.
BUT THE IDEA FOR THE CHIEF TO
MEET THE COMMISSION CAN BE A
COMMUNITY OR ROCK VOICE.
YEAH, YEAH.
IF IT IS IT IS A MEETING OF THE
VOCODERS RIGHT
UP TO A CERTAIN
EXTENT WE WANT TO BE A FRIENDLY
ATMOSPHERE.
YEAH.
YES.
AND I KNOW THAT THE CHIEF HAS
BEEN IN CONTENTIOUS SITUATIONS
OR TAKEN WITH THE PUBLIC
BECAUSE YOU DON'T KNOW WHAT
SOMEBODY IS GONNA SAY BUT ONCE
THEY HAVE TO MAKE SURE THE
EXTRA THERE'S GOT TO BE A
MODERATOR AND SOMEONE TO READ
THE QUESTIONS AND AT SOME POINT
THE QUESTIONS CAN JUST GO SHAKE
THE CHIEF'S AND IF THEY HAVE
SOME CONFUSION AND THEY CAN GO
RIGHT, IT CAN TURN CONTENTIOUS.
YOU KNOW, YOU DON'T WANT TO GO
SO HAS GOT TO BE LIKE THE
QUESTION OUT OF YOUR CONTROL.
OH, THAT'S JUST NOT GOOD ENOUGH
I THINK NO I I AGREE WITH YOU.
I THINK I DON'T REALLY WANT TO
DO THAT SO DON'T COLLECT THE
QUESTIONS THEN WANT ME TO READ
THEM OFF AS THE MODERATOR.
YEAH OKAY.
I JUST KNOW HOW I LOOK THROUGH
AND MAKE SURE IT DOESN'T YOU
KNOW SOME GOOD ONES BUT ALSO
SOMEONE TO GET HIS MIND THINGS
AND I'LL MAKE SURE YOU TO HE'S
THEM AND AND THEN I'LL READ FOR
EXAMPLE.
YES.
AND JUST GO SO THAT'S WHY IT'S
GOING TO BE PART OF THE ACTUAL
MEETING.
YEAH.
SO THAT THERE IS SOME CONTROL
BUT YOU KNOW WE CAN CALL A
GROUP OF RESTAURANTS I'M JUST
WONDERING WE ARE PROGRESSING WE
ARE DEFINITELY GOING TO HAVE TO
KEEP IT LIKE SO WE GET ONE LAST
ONE FOR SURE, KNOW WHAT I MEAN
.
BUT HOW ARE HOW ARE WE GOING
FORWARD FOR THE COMMUNITY TO
RETURN TO HOW ARE WE GOING TO
OK, WE'VE GOT YOU YOU GAVE ME A
GREAT RESOURCE SO THAT HAS GONE
OUT TO ALL OF THE BLACK
FRATERNITIES SORORITIES.
IT'S GONE OUT TO IT'S GOING OUT
TO CHURCHES, TO SYNAGOGUES, TO
MOSQUES AND RIGHT NOW I'M GLAD
YOU BROUGHT THAT UP.
I DON'T REALLY HAVE A CONTACT
AT ANHYDRIDE OR IN LOVE WITH
ANYBODY.
I'M SURE YOU OH YEAH OK.
YEAH BRIAN WAS THERE LAST NIGHT
AND SO HE SAID THAT HE WOULD
SAY THAT HE WAS SO DO WE SAID
SO HOW DO WE GET HIM TO PUT IT
IN.
I DON'T EVEN KNOW HOW HE KNEW
LESS SON MAYBE HE WATCHES AND I
DIDN'T CONTACT THEM AND LET HIM
OW THAT WE A GOOD WHAT WE DID
ON OUR SOCIAL MEDIA BECAUSE WE
HAVE BEEN FOLLOWING A LOT
OF ORGANIZATIONS ASSOCIATION
AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND LIFE
I'M TO WORKING SO BUT MAYBE YOU
CAN MAKE DIRECT CONTACT WITH
HIM.
YES.
AND SHOW ME SO WE GET IT AND SO
THE COMMUNITY HAS AN IDEA
OF WHAT THIS IS GOING TO LOOK
LIKE.
SO I HAVE NO PROBLEM GETTING
INTO THAT IS HAVING POSTERS IN
THE BUSSES BECAUSE LOTS
OF PEOPLE WHO ARE USING BUSSES
ARE THE ONES WHO UNDERSTAND AND
MAYBE THAT WOULD ENCOURAGE SOME
TO SHOW UP IN THE LIBRARY KNOW
WHEN I WAS ON THE LIBRARY BOARD
THE DOWNTOWN BRANCH OVER THE
COURSE OF THE WEEK WHEN THEY
HAVE EVENTS LIKE THEY HAD THEY
HAD A MAJOR TAYLOR SWIFT ALBUM
DAY THAT HAD HUNDREDS OR
HUNDREDS OF PEOPLE THERE LAST
FRIDAY.
BUT WHEN THEY HAVE THESE
WEEKEND EVENTS IT'S ABOUT THREE
THOUSAND PEOPLE THAT COME TO
THAT DOWNTOWN BRANCH AT A TIME.
SO THEIR OUTREACH IS PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT.
YEAH.
SO SHE THEY COME CONTACT WITH
THEM.
YEAH.
SO I KNOW FOR THE ANN ARBOR
DISTRICT LIBRARY BILLINGSGATE
BRANCH THEY HAVE POSTED THE
FLIER THAT WAS APPROVED AND SO
WE COULD DO TO SEE IF THEY'RE
ABLE TO EXTEND THAT LINE TO THE
OTHER BRANCHES AS WELL.
YEAH.
THEN THE MAIN BRANCH IS THE ONE
I KNOW TAYLOR SWIFT I'M TAYLOR
SWIFT.
WE'LL SEE.
AND THEN THERE'S ALSO YOU CAN
BRING IF YOU'RE UNFAMILIAR WITH
THE WESTERN CONFERENCE ROOM IN
THE BACK, IT'S REALLY THE
LIBRARY BOARD HAS BEEN TEACHING
PLANNING SESSIONS.
THEY'RE YOU CAN HAVE FOOD AND
IT'S A WELL AND THERE'S LITTLE
KIDS RUNNING AROUND TOO.
SO I THINK THAT REALLY HELPS
WITH THAT.
BUT COMMUNITY BASED DEALING
WITH KIDS RUNNING AROUND OTHER
GROUPS MEETING AT THE SAME TIME
DID YOU LAST WEEK SO YEAH IT'S
NICE.
OK, WE HAVE A FACEBOOK PAGE.
I'LL GET BACK TO THAT AS THE
OUTREACH COMMITTEE UPDATE.
YEAH BUT I'LL BE SUBMITTING
THIS A REPORT ON IT.
OK GOOD THANK YOU BUT I MOVE
ALONG IN TERMS OF OTHER NEW
BUSINESS IT WAS MENTIONED TO ME
OF LAST YEAR FOR THE LAST
COUPLE OF YEARS WE'VE HAD A
COUPLE OF MEETINGS OUTDOORS.
WE HAD ONE AT FARMER'S MARKET.
WE HAD ONE AT THAT COBBLESTONE
FARMS AND I DON'T THINK I DON'T
THINK IT INCREASED OUR
VIEWERSHIP AT ALL BUT I WANT TO
BRING IT UP AND SEE.
WE HAVE A JUNE MEETING COMING
UP WHICH WILL BE OUR LAST
MEETING BEFORE THE SUMMER
BREAK.
WE DON'T MEET IN JULY AUGUST.
SO IF YOU WOULD LIKE TO HAVE A
MEETING OUTSIDE BECAUSE IT'S
JUNE IF YOU'D LIKE TO HAVE I
THOUGHT MAYBE YOU WILL START
OFF AND INVITE THE OFFICERS.
I MEAN WE COULD DO PRETTY MUCH
ANYTHING WE WANT TO DO AND I
GUESS I SHOULD LEAVE THAT TO
THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE.
BUT THEY'RE NOT THAT LOW.
SO WHAT DO YOU WANT?
WHAT DO YOU THINK ABOUT DOING
SOMETHING DIFFERENT FOR JUNE?
IS JUNETEENTH THE END OF APRIL
AND WE WILL DO THAT AGAIN.
>> I THINK WE WE HAVE A TABLE I
JUNETEENTH LAST NIGHT AND BY
THE WAY, I'M GOING TO GO AHEAD
AND I DON'T KNOW IF I NEED TO
GO BECAUSE I DIDN'T GET A
OF THINGS CAST OUT OF JUNE BUT
WE NEED WE NEED A TABLECLOTH.
YOU KNOW, ONE OF THOSE THOUGHTS
WITH OUR WOULD BE WITH THE BIG
GLOBAL LIGHT.
SO I'M GOING TO ORDER THAT
UNLESS THERE'S AN OBJECTION
FROM DOLLAR BILLS PRINTING.
SO WE'LL HAVE THAT FOR
JUNETEENTH AND LAST TIME I WAS
THERE ALL DAY.
SO IF ANY ELSE WANTS TO LOCK
THAT OFF AND COME OUT AND SIT
AT THE TABLE AND HAND OUT SOME
PHOTOGRAPHY WAS FINE.
BUT YOU KNOW, WE ALL NEED TO
GET OUT.
OK, SO SO WHAT DO YOU DO
MEETING COUNCIL CHAMBERS NOT
THE KIND OF GOOD THINGS OR
WATERMARKED AND THERE WHICH MAY
HAVE BEEN THE FIRST EVER BEEN
ENTERED INTO A TABLE TO HAVE A
TABLE THAT CAN NO, NO, NO IN
AFRICA BECAUSE THE NO THE
AFRICAN AMERICAN THERE YEAH.
AFRICAN AMERICAN THERE ARE MORE
BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT TO
SUGGEST AND I THINK WE ARE
REALLY COSTING OURSELVES WE
DON'T WANT TO SUGGEST THAT
CARECEN IS A BLACK ISSUE.
RIGHT.
IT IS NOT IT'S A COMMUNITY
ISSUE WHICH IS TRULY A
COMMUNITY ISSUE.
SO WHAT WE WANT IS A FORUM THAT
GETS ALL THE STAKEHOLDERS IN
OUR COMMUNITIES.
YES, THAT'S WHAT WE WANT.
THAT'S MY OPINION SUCH AS
A
FORUM SUCH AS I DON'T KNOW.
YEAH, THE BRAINSTORM ON THAT
BUT WELL YEAH OK THINK ABOUT
THIS THING ABOUT WE CAN
COMMUNICATE I KNOW EVERYBODY IS
READING YOUR DENHA EMAIL EVEN
THOUGH EVERYBODY DOESN'T GET
BACK TO REAL I MAKE SURE WE
CHECK OUR CITY AND LET ME KNOW
BECAUSE IF WE IF WE DON'T COME
UP WITH ANY IDEAS AND THE FORUM
IS A BIG DEAL SO MAYBE WE JUST
WANT TO GO TO COUNCIL CHAMBERS
AND THAT'S OK.
SO WE'LL BE COMMUNICATING ON
THAT COMMITTEE REPORTS POLICY
COMMITTEE WE WELCOME BACK.
I KNOW IF YOU HAVE ANYTHING TO
REPORT.
WELL, I MEAN I WOULD JUST SAY
THAT WE HAD NUMEROUS
RECOMMENDATIONS FROM THE LAST
SEVERAL MONTHS OR SO MONTHS AGO
AND THEY HAVE BEEN INCORPORATED
INTO THE REPORT BY BUT BEYOND
THAT I DON'T THINK THE THANK
YOU AND I I HAVE ASKED
PERMISSION TO BRING TO MEET
YOUR COMMITTEE MAYBE YOU HAVE
TO BELIEVE YES.
BECAUSE I ASKED HIM JUST I AM
SORRY I DIDN'T SAY NO.
I ASKED HIM TO JOIN THE
INFORMATION MANU BECAUSE I FELT
THAT HIS BACKGROUND WOULD LIVE
ITSELF TO REVIEWING THE
COMPLAINTS.
SO YOU HAVE ONE LAST MEMBER AND
I'LL TRY TO RECRUIT SOME
MINORITY TRAINING COMMITTEE
COMMISSIONER NAJEM REPORT WE
HAVE AN EXCELLENT, EXCELLENT,
EXCELLENT.
I SEE LOTS OF QUESTIONS.
IT WAS A GREAT MEETING AND I'M
LOOKING FORWARD AND I THINK
THAT EVERYBODY GET A COPY
OF THE POWERPOINT PRESENTATION
.
YES.
AND WE WERE INVITED TO TAKE
PART IN HOW ARE YOU LOOKING
YOUR IT'S A VIRTUAL VIRTUAL
REALITY.
SO YOU KNOW AND I UNDERSTAND
THAT THERE'S MORE THERE'S ROOM
FOR FOUR OF US.
YEAH.
TO GO AND SO I THINK I WANT TO
GO AND I'M GOING TO WANT TO GO
.
DID SOMEBODY ELSE TELL ME THEY
WANT TO TO DO THE BOARD?
THEY'RE GOING TO DO IT NOW
WE'RE WHERE IT'S GOING TO BE
IT'S GOING TO BE HERE OKAY.
IT'S GOING TO BE HERE ABOUT YES
IT'LL BE IN THIS BUILDING
FRIDAY.
>> SO WE JUST HAVE TO PICK A
DAY, RIGHT?
YEAH.
JUST GOT GET A COORDINATOR TO
GET IT TOGETHER AND WE TO GO SO
WE'VE GOT TO IT THAT LET ME
KNOW AND I WANT TO TRY AND GET
US A DATE WHERE WE GO IN AND
YOU'RE GOING TO COME BACK WITH
LIKE MAKE YOU KNEW THAT VIDEO.
SO WE DO APPRECIATE THE THE
INFORMATION THAT WE HAD AT THE
END OF THAT TRAINING VERY MUCH
THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE
COMMISSIONER FRANCIS WAS NOT
ABLE TO MAKE IT.
HE DID SEND AN EMAIL AND WANTED
TO MAKE SURE THAT WE KNEW THAT
THEY HAD SET UP THE THE FORUM
AND ARE WORKING ON THAT.
IS THERE ANYTHING ELSE FOR
OUTREACH?
SO COMMISSIONER FRANCIS ALONG I
HOPE WE DESIGN COMMUNICATIONS
FOR THE PUBLIC ON OUR SOCIAL
MEDIA PLATFORMS THAT WENT OUT
LAST WEEK.
WE DO NOT HAVE A FACEBOOK BUT
WE DO HAVE INSTAGRAM AND
TWITTER BUT WE DON'T HAVE THE
YOUTH COMMISSIONER YET.
SO I'VE TAKEN IT UPON MYSELF TO
DOVE BACK INTO THE SOCIAL MEDIA
WORLD AND DO THE BEST I CAN TO
MAKE SURE CAN'T.
SO I DID SHARE ONLINE THAT WE
ARE HAVING A PUBLIC FORUM WITH
THE LANGUAGE THAT COMMISSIONER
FRANCIS CAME WITH.
SO THAT WOULD PRETTY WELL
PEOPLE ARE LIKING IT.
I DID ALSO SHOW THAT WE HAVE A
MEETING TONIGHT SO I DID THAT
SO PEOPLE KNOW MORE ABOUT YOU
GUYS.
SO IS THERE ANYTHING IN
UPCOMING WEEKS WE ARE STILL
PLANNING TO PROMOTE THE PUBLIC
FORUM ANY WAY, SHAPE OR FORM WE
NEED TO ON THE PLATFORM.
BUT THE GOAL IS TO DECIDE ON A
FINAL PRESENTATION TO OUR
BULLETIN OUR EMAIL LIST SO THAT
AGAIN WE ARE INVITING
ASSOCIATION ORGANIZATIONS,
COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND SO THAT'S
WHY WE HAVE THE SPEECH.
WE WANTED TO MAKE SURE THAT I
SHARED THAT WITH YOU AND MAKE
SURE THAT I AM GETTING THE
CONTACT INFORMATION FOR THE
GROUPS AND INDIVIDUALS AND
ENTITIES THAT YOU ALL WOULD
LIKE.
BUT IF YOU HAVE ANY OTHER IDEAS
ON HOW THE OUTREACH COMMITTEE
COULD BE REACHING OUT TO OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS ASSOCIATION,
PLEASE EMAIL ME YOUR EMAIL.
COMMISSIONER FINFISH.
WE'RE DEFINITELY INTERESTED IN
A WAY AS FAR FOR FLIERS ONCE
THE FINAL FLIER OF THE INVITE
IS DONE YOU CAN GET THOSE
PRINTED OUT AND WE CAN SHARE
THEN WE WOULD JUST NEED TO KNOW
OR I WOULD NEED TO KNOW WHERE
YOU ALL ARE TRYING TO PUBLICIZE
THESE FLIERS AND MAKING SURE
THAT THESE FIRES ARE PROVED TO
BE POSTED HERE BECAUSE I DON'T
WANT US TO GO AND PUT SOMETHING
UP AND THEN IT GETS TORN DOWN.
WE NEED TO GET APPROVAL FLOW TO
BE DONE ELECTRONICALLY AND CAN
WE INDIVIDUALLY SEND THEM UP OR
DO WE NEED TO GO THROUGH?
I THINK YOU CAN SEND OUT
INVITES FROM THE COMMISSION.
YOU KNOW, BUT NOT IN STATE
CURRENCY WHERE YOU WON'T BE
ABLE TO PERFORM SO YOU SHOULD
BE ABLE TO DO IT ON YOUR STATE
OF MICHIGAN.
WHAT'S THE REACTION FROM YOUR
COMMISSIONER?
IT'S SUPPOSED TO BE A STUDENT.
I DON'T THINK THERE IS AN AGE
LIMIT FOR COLLEGE AND OUR HIGH
FOREIGN STUDENT WAS IT IT SAY
SPECIFICALLY MY AFFORD FROM
NEWSWEEK?
>> ALL RIGHT, DON'T WORRY.
I'M I'M UNDER OK.
BY THE WAY, LET ME SAY THIS
NEXT YEAR WHEN WE GET OUR
CALENDAR TOGETHER TODAY'S A
JEWISH HOLIDAY AND WE NEED TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE DON'T SET OUR
MEETINGS ON HOLIDAYS.
SO EVERYBODY YOU WILL GET THE
CALENDAR EARLY IN THE YEAR.
LET'S LET'S MAKE SURE THAT WE
CHECK ON THAT CITY COUNCIL
UPDATE OF INFORMATION.
I'M SORRY.
OH, I FORGOT THE INFORMATION
MANAGER SO IT'S IT'S A WORK IN
PROGRESS AND I JUST COMPLETED
THE DATES AND TIMES COULDN'T
GET YOU THROUGH AFTER THE
MEETING NOW HUDDLED TOGETHER
I'M ACTUALLY CANADIAN.
THAT'S RIGHT.
SO IT'S AN THURSDAY NEXT WEEK
MONDAY, TUESDAY AND WE CAN HAVE
SOME MEETING AND JUST TO GO
WITH THE PRESIDENT CONS ABOUT
YEAH.
AND IT'S GOING TO TAKE A WORK
IN PROGRESS AND I'VE GOT THAT
AGREEMENT AND WE WILL BE
JOINING AND THAT WILL
ACCELERATE THE PROCESS.
I THINK WE I WOULD IMAGINE THAT
BY BY NEXT MEETING AT LEAST
TWENTY ONE TWENTY TWO CONTENTS
WOULD BE ONE TWENTY TWENTY
TWENTY ONE POTENTIAL TO BE
COMPLETED AND THEN WE HAVE TO
GO BACK TO A TWENTY TWENTY
BECAUSE THOSE WERE THE OLD ONE
THAT REALLY THE PART OF THE
APPROACH TO REVIEWING THE DATA
ALL THE THINGS WE'RE SO
SCATTERED IN A WAY THAT SO MANY
COMMISSIONERS AND NO ONE SEEMS
TO HAVE ANYTHING IN PLACE SO WE
NEED TO WORK ON THOSE ONES AND
THAT WOULD BE THE REPLACE AND
FOR THE TWENTY TWENTY FOUR I
THINK WE ARE QUITE CONTENT WITH
SO FAR THERE IS NOTHING TO BE
SENT TO US I THINK IS ONE WE
GOT FROM THE THE GOVERNMENT.
HE SAID THAT ONE ONE CURRENTLY
IS BEING REVIEWED BY AN
EXTERNAL SITE HERE BECAUSE
OF THE NATURE OF THE COMPLAINT
HIMSELF.
SO WE HAVE THIS MATERIAL
MULTIPLE TABASSUM REVIEW READY
FOR YOU.
THANK YOU VERY YEAH.
I THINK I THINK ONE OF THE GOOD
THINGS THAT WE'RE DOING IS IS
GETTING THINGS SYSTEMATIZED I
THINK AND I THINK WE HAVE OUR
SYSTEM IN PLACE.
WE HAVE VERY FEW OUTLIERS FOR
TWENTY TWENTY TWO I'VE GOT ONE
THAT I CAN FINISH IF I CAN GET
THE VIDEO THAT WORK I MEAN
THINGS LIKE THAT I THINK
INITIALLY AND I WAS TOLD IS
THAT IT WAS DECIDED SOMEWHERE
ON OUR END THAT WE WERE ONLY
GOING TO REVIEW CERTAIN
COMPLAINTS AND WE HAVE TO GO
BACK AND SAY NO, WE WANT TO DO
ALL OF THE WHAT WE DO HAVE WE
WE HAVE A PROCEDURE NOW IN
PLACE AND IT'S ON I THINK
REALLY QUICKLY.
OKAY.
SO THE QUESTION I HAVE THERE'S
THE PROCESS WE'RE IN A PROCESS
DOESN'T HAVE THE MECHANISM I WE
DIDN'T HAVE A MECHANISM FOR
MEETING OUR WHAT MECHANISM
FRIVOLOUS.
NO COMPLAINTS, YOU KNOW AND YOU
KNOW I MEAN IF THEY HAPPEN AND
AND YOU YOUR YOUR RESPONSE CAN
BE I AGREE WITH THE WITH THE
DETERMINATION OF THE DEPARTMENT
BUT WE DON'T WE DON'T AMONG THE
COMPLAINTS WHATEVER COMPLAINT
THAT WAS SUBMITTED EITHER
DIRECTLY TO OR THROUGH A CLERK
WILL BE REVIEWED BY THE
DISPOSITION OF THE DEPARTMENT
AS OTHER UNFOUNDED MEANING THAT
IS JUST SOMEBODY CREATED THIS
COMPLAINT OR NOT JUST TO ME
THAT WAS A LONG REVIEW AND THE
COMPLAINT WOULD NOT REACH A
POINT BEING SUSTAINED OR
SUSTAINED BY OK, SO THE MESSAGE
IS THERE'S NO COMPLAINT TO BE
AND THAT'S RIGHT BECAUSE
BECAUSE WE HAVE TO BE OBJECTIVE
AND THAT WE REVIEWED ALL THE
CASES AND I THINK MOST OF THE
TIME WE AGREE WITH THE FINDINGS
AND THEY WILL AGREE BECAUSE
THAT IF AN ENCOUNTER HAPPENED
THAT YES, THERE WAS AN
INVESTIGATION, YES THERE WAS A
TEXT AND ALL THESE THINGS BUT
THERE WAS NO REVIEW FOR US TO
REVIEW EITHER THE DATA THAT
REALLY WAS DELETED OR THE
REVIEW WAS SHORT.
THERE WAS ONE INCIDENT ROAD
PIECE AND IT WAS LIKE THIRTY
SECONDS OR FORTY SECONDS
OF BEING SO THAT BY ITSELF IT
WAS NOT FOR US TO SAY WELL WE
AGREE WITH THE FINDINGS.
WE KNOW THAT THIS INCIDENT
HAPPENED BUT TO BE OBJECTIVE I
DID NOT SEE THE MATERIAL FROM
THE VIDEO TO MAKE A JUDGMENT
OFF OF THAT SO SO THERE WILL BE
SOME SOME THAT YOU'LL LOOK AT
AND YOU WILL NEED TO SEE THE
VIDEO WITH THAT AND THAT'S WHY
I KNOW THAT YOUR EXPERIENCE ON
IN HANDCUFFS ON YOU JUST LOOK
AT THE COMPLAINT READ A
COMPLAINT TO READ WHAT THE
DEPARTMENT SAID IS THAT YOU
WANT TO BUT BUT I'M SORRY BUT
THERE ARE SOME TOO BIG FOR US
IN LITIGATION INVOLVED.
WE DON'T DO THAT.
I GOT AN EMAIL TODAY FROM
SOMEONE IN CALIFORNIA WHO WAS
DOING RESEARCH AND SHE WANTED
TO KNOW ABOUT OUR INPUT IN
DISCOVERY AND LAWSUITS AND OUR
RESPONSE WE DON'T WE DON'T GIVE
THEM ALL OF THOSE KINDS
OF COMPLAINTS.
OK, VERY GOOD.
THANK YOU.
SOMETIMES YOU HAVE A
CONVERSATION BETWEEN THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND THE COMPUTER.
SOMETIMES THERE'S NO RECORDING
OF THAT.
BUT ONE OF THE CONDITIONS WE
HAVE IS ANYTIME THERE'S A
CONNECTION BETWEEN CITIZEN AND
THIS POINT IF THAT IS THE ONLY
MEANS OF COMMUNICATION THAT HAS
TO BE RECORDED AND THIS IS WHY
WE WEREN'T INVOLVED WHO WAS
GIVEN THE COUNCIL BECAUSE THAT
REQUIRES FUNDING OR POLICE
OFFICERS WHO ARE OUT AND THEY
ARE BEING CALLED TO INVESTIGATE
OR TO CHECK THEIR RECORDS THAT
THEY HAVE TO HAVE THE 41
CAMERAS ON BUT THAT DOESN'T GO
WELL.
YOU KNOW, THIS IS AN ISSUE
OF FUNDING SOMETIMES THE
MALFUNCTIONS THESE THINGS HAVE
TO BE IMPROVED OR IT MAY BE THE
THE NEW VERSION OF THE CAMERAS
ETC. VERSUS THE FUNCTION.
SO I UNDERSTAND THERE ARE
SITUATIONS WHERE SOME
COMPLAINTS SAY ABOUT AN OUTCOME
OF A COURT CASE AGAINST
HAPPENED NEW WITH POLICE
OVERSIGHT.
OK, IT'S NOT A COMPLAINT.
I GOT ARRESTED IN JAIL
MANAGEMENT THREE THIRTY DAYS IN
JAIL.
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO MOVE
THAT RIGHT.
RIGHT.
I DON'T I HAVEN'T SEEN ANY
OF IT WAS THERE WAS ONE CASE
THAT WAS SENT TO US FROM ONE
WAS A BIG, BIG PICTURE AND IT
VISIT HERE HE WAS NOT LIKE
ARRESTED OVER HERE SO AND SEND
US THE COMPLAINT AND OUR IDEA
WAS IT'S OUTSIDE OUR
JURISDICTION.
WE CAN'T REVIEW THAT IF YOUR
PROBLEM IS WITH YOUR SHOW OR
YOUR PROBLEM IS WITH SOMEBODY
ELSE IS THAT THEY ALL GET A
THAT NEED IT.
WE'RE GOING TO BE THERE WITH
UNDER OBAMACARE.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
CITY COUNCIL UPDATER A COUPLE
OF THINGS BECAUSE OF BUDGETING
IS ONE THING THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON AND I ARE
WORKING ON WENT ON AND OTHER
COUNCIL MEMBERS IS TAKING A
LOOK AT HOW WE CAN EDUCATE THE
MARIJUANA EXCISE TAX REBATE
FUNDS THAT WE RECEIVE.
SO IN OUR BUDGET IS I THINK TO
RECEIVE THE MOST MARIJUANA
TAXES IN THE STATE SO THOSE
DISPENSARIES HAVE BEEN VERY
SUPPORTIVE OF THE CITY AND IT'S
ABOUT ONE POINT ONE MILLION
THIS YEAR COMPARED TO A MILLION
LAST YEAR.
LAST YEAR WE HAD DEDICATED
250000 TO ADDICTION PREVENTION,
250000 TO LOW INCOME YOUTH
SERVICES, 400000 TO TRAUMA AND
ONE CASE MANAGEMENT FOR TENANT
BASED SERVICES FOR TENANT BASED
VOUCHER HOUSEHOLDS AND TWO
HUNDRED THOUSAND TO THE CENTER.
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR PROPOSED
BUDGET ALREADY INCLUDES FUNDING
FOR THE DELINA CENTER FROM THE
GENERAL FUND.
SO WHAT WE'RE TRYING TO DO IS
TAKE A LOOK AT WHAT THAT MONEY
HAS BEEN USED FOR IN THE PAST
YEAR.
WE HAVE REPORT FOR A NUMBER
OF AGENCIES WHO DEPLOYED THAT
400000 WRAPAROUND SERVICES FOR
MOSTLY BOTH TO BE TO DEFEND AND
THAT WAS USED FOR COMMENT ON
THE CASE MANAGEMENT, PEER
SUPPORT, MENTORSHIP, MOVE-IN
ACCESS, SECURITY DEPOSITS, RENT
ARREARS AND UTILITY SHUTOFFS
AND THAT IS COORDINATED BY THE
SHELTER ASSOCIATION S.O.S
COMMUNITY SERVICES CATHOLIC
SOCIAL SERVICES, WASHINGTON
HOUSING ALLIANCE AND BRIATORE
FOR THE LAST COUNCIL MEETING.
FOLKS COMING RIGHT THE WAY
PRESENTED ON THE IMPACT OF THIS
FUNDING WAS 400000 IN THE
COMMUNITY AND IT WAS PRETTY
SIGNIFICANT BECAUSE THERE WAS
NO OTHER FUNDING LIKE THIS IN
THE COUNTY BUT FOR THE CITY TO
MAKE THAT A PRIORITY AND PERSON
HERE COMES MY PERSON HER HER
MOTIVATION WAS THAT THIS
FUNDING SHOULD BE THAT THIS
REVENUE SHOULD BE A WAY TO
ADDRESS THE IMPACT ON THE YOU
KNOW, ON DRUGS HAVING AN IMPACT
IN OUR COMMUNITIES, THE WAR ON
DRUGS AND HOW IT'S BEEN SO
HURTFUL.
SO SHE THINKS SHE'D LIKE TO
CONTINUE FUNDING AGAIN THIS
YEAR AN INCREASE FROM 400000 TO
500000 AND NOW WE'RE TRYING TO
FIGURE OUT WHERE THE OTHER HALF
MILLION FOR MARIJUANA TAX
REVENUE CAN BE DEDICATED.
SO THAT'S AN ONGOING
CONVERSATION WE'RE HEARING FROM
DIFFERENT SOCIAL SERVICE
AGENCIES.
BUT FOR COUNCIL MEMBER
HARRISON, I THINK FOR HER SHE'S
LIKE THIS REALLY NEEDS TO
ADDRESS THE IMPACT OF THE WAR
ON DRUGS AND HOW THIS REVENUE
DOES NOT DOES NOT BENEFIT.
I MEAN I DON'T THINK THERE ARE
VERY MANY DISPENSARIES HERE BUT
I'M NOT COMMUNITY MEMBERS AND
THAT'S THAT'S A SIGNIFICANT
ISSUE.
SO BETWEEN NOW AND MAY OR MAY
ISN'T BETWEEN NOW AND THE
SECOND COMING FROM DENHA I
THINK IF YOU HAVE ANY DEBACKER
THOUGHTS AS TO HOW WE CAN
DEPLOY THIS FUNDING IF FROM
WITHIN THE COMMUNITY THAT BE
HELPFUL, I HAD A THOUGHT ABOUT
POSSIBLY PUTTING SOME FUNDING
TOWARDS CHILD CARE.
I KNOW FOLKS WHO'VE BEEN
INCARCERATED OR HAVE BEEN
AFFECTED BY THE JUSTICE SYSTEM
STRUGGLE WITH VERY EXPENSIVE
COSTS IN THIS CITY WE HAVE VERY
LIMITED CHILD CARE OPTIONS,
MULTIPLE YEAR WAIT LISTS AND
LIMITED OPTIONS WITHIN PUBLIC
SCHOOLS WHICH IS ALSO
STRUGGLING BUT THESE ARE TOUGH.
THAT'S JUST AN IDEA ANYWAY.
YEAH SO BUT KUDOS TO COUNCIL
MEMBER FOR COMING UP WITH THAT
BOTTOM IN ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
THAT ONE MILLION LAST YEAR AND
THIS SHOULD BE REALLY DEDICATED
TO WRAPAROUND SERVICES AND FOR
HER TO KEEP THAT THROUGH WITH
VERY SIGNIFICANT IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
AS FOR THE REST OF THE BUDGET
TO ADMINISTRATOR TIFFANY HAS
DEDICATED EVERYTHING EXCEPT FOR
A MILLION SO THAT THIS COUNCIL
MEETING AND HE SAID HE SAID
IT'S UP TO YOU COUNCIL ON HOW
YOU WOULD LIKE TO DEDICATE THIS
COMMUNITY IF YOU LIKE.
IT'S A GAME SHOW.
I THINK HE'S JUST PUTTING US TO
THE TEST WHERE WE NEED TO
DEMONSTRATE HOW WELL WE NEED
HOW WELL WE KNOW OUR COMMUNITY
AND WHERE THE NEEDS ARE.
SO AGAIN, IF YOU HAVE THOUGHTS
AS TO WHERE WE CAN REDEPLOY A
MILLION WITHIN THE CITY, THE
BENEFIT OUR RESIDENTS THIS IS
THIS IS A GOOD TIME FOR
AND YOU
KNOW, IF YOU'RE SAYING THAT YOU
NEED ADDITIONAL FUNDING FOR
THIS PARTICULAR MISSION, NOT A
MILLION BUT NOT A MILLION.
BUT IF YOU WANT US TO HAVE THIS
CONVERSATION, REMIND FELLOW
COUNCIL MEMBERS THAT THIS IS
THE COUNTY THE DEDICATED
FUNDING THAT WE HAVE FOR THIS
EFFORT IS USED AND USED WELL,
IT'S ALWAYS IT'S ALWAYS A GOOD
REMINDER HOW OUR PUBLIC DOLLARS
ARE DEPLOYED AND THEN I ALSO
SHOULD APOLOGIZE.
I MISSED THE LAST MEETING MY
FATHER WAS CRITICAL CONDITION
LAST MONTH.
SO I THINK YOU HAVE TO FIGURE
OUT CARE FOR HIM AND I MIGHT
HAVE TO TRY AGAIN AND I MIGHT
HAVE TO LIST THE COMMUNITY
DEPENDING ON HIS CONDITION.
SO I WELL WE CERTAINLY WISH
SAFE TRAVELS.
THANK YOU LIEUTENANT YOU THANK
YOU.
THANK YOU.
OK, WE ARE AT COMMUNICATIONS
AND SPEAKING OF LUCK AND YOU
KNOW WE DO HAVE A BUDGET AND WE
NEED TO USE IT BECAUSE AT SOME
POINT SOME HEY NICOLE'S GOT
SOME I'M SORRY IF I HAD MONEY
AND THEY'RE NOT SPENDING.
SO AGAIN, NICOLE CONFERENCE
PLEASE TRY AND GOLD IT'S THIS
FALL OCTOBER AND IT'S GOING TO
BE IN TUCSON AS I UNDERSTAND
IT.
SO LAST TIME FOUR OF US WENT TO
CHICAGO IF YOU SEE A CONFERENCE
THERE'S ONE THAT I'M LOOKING AT
THE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION
OF BLACK LAW ENFORCEMENT
EXECUTIVES.
I THINK THAT'S AND THEY I
LOOKED AT THE LIST OF OF
OF WORKSHOPS AND ONE I WAS
PARTICULARLY INTERESTED IN
DEALING WITH HOW TO DETERMINE
IF YOU HAVE GROUPS IN THE
DEPARTMENT THAT I DON'T EVEN
KNOW HOW TO I DON'T EVEN KNOW
HOW TO CHARACTERIZE HATE GROUPS
BUT THAT INTERESTED SO I MIGHT
TRY AND GO DOWN HERE I DON'T
KNOW BUT WE HAVE FUN SO WE CAN
EDUCATE OURSELVES AND SO WHERE
IS THAT?
AND THAT'S IN NEW ORLEANS AND I
YOU GO TO NEW ORLEANS AUGUST
THE CONFERENCE.
YOU WANT TO GO SEE THE SESSION
TO KEEP GOING.
YES, THAT'S WHAT YEAH EXACTLY.
EXACTLY.
SO I THINK I'M HOPING TO GO BUT
I'M NOT SURE YET BUT YOU KNOW,
TAKE A LOOK AT THOSE
CONFERENCES WHEN THEY WHEN THEY
COME BECAUSE THAT'S THAT'S WHY
WE HAVE A BUDGET SO THAT WE CAN
EDUCATE OURSELVES.
IS THIS SOMETHING THAT I SHOULD
KNOW ABOUT THAT I'M DESPERATE
FOR THAT'S FOR ME.
IT'S ALL RIGHT.
YOU THE COMMUNICATIONS JUST
WANT TO USE A FEW WEEKS AGO WE
HAVE YOUR FIRST MEETING WITH
THE CHIEF AND THE LIVING
OFFICERS OF THE DEPARTMENT
LEADERSHIP DEPARTMENT.
IT WAS REALLY A FRANK AND OPEN
EXCHANGE OF IDEAS AND CONCERNS.
YEAH.
AND I FELT THAT IT WAS REALLY A
VERY POSITIVE STEP ON BOTH THE
ISSUE AND LEADERSHIP OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF TO HAVE THIS KIND
OF DIALOG.
IT'S IT'S VERY WANT TO HAVE
THOSE OPEN CHANNELS AND IT'S
ALSO EASY TO CONVEY OUR
CONCERNS DIRECTLY VERSUS THE
OTHER CHANNELS AND CORPORATE
HAD THE 71ST ADDRESS I THINK
YOU ARE FAMILIAR WITH THE
PASSION ABOUT MANY OF THESE
CONCERNS AND ALSO I DISCUSSED
SOME OF THE OTHER FINDINGS FROM
REVIEWING THE COMPLAINTS AND
WHAT WE SEE AS AREAS
OF IMPROVEMENT OF OF EITHER
DEPARTMENT WHERE WE HAVE
POLICIES AND PEOPLE HAVE TO
HAVE SOME KIND OF UNIFORM
DIRECTIONS.
IT'S LIKE IF YOU STOP SOMEBODY
WITH JUST A FEW INTERVIEWS
YOURSELF THAT BY ITSELF TO
ESCALATE ANY OF THE CONCERNS OR
STRESSES THAT A CITIZEN WOULD
HAVE AND THEN ALSO OUR
RECOMMENDATIONS SO THIS IS AN
ONGOING AND HOPEFULLY ONGOING
AREA OF COMMUNICATIONS AND
MAYBE LOOKING FORWARD TO THE
NEXT ONE REACH FOR THAT.
AND WE RAISED SOME OF THE
HUMBOLDT PARK OVER SOME OF THE
ISSUES CONCERNING CERTAIN
ASPECTS OF CORRECTIONS BECAUSE
WE CAN'T ADDRESS JUST HOLD THEM
AND ONE GRUDGINGLY WE CAN REACH
A POINT WHERE THIS IS IDEAS
BOTH OF US WOULD PROBABLY
IMPROVE NOT THE ACTION BUT ALSO
IMPROVE THE INTERACTIONS
BETWEEN THE CITIZENS AND THE
PUBLIC AND TO BUILD THE TRUST.
AND THIS IS WHAT WE DO.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR
BRINGING THAT UP.
IT WAS A VERY GOOD MEETING.
WE WERE OUTNUMBERED GREATLY
WHAT THEY THEY LET US TALK AND
TALK ABOUT YOU JUST TALK ABOUT
IT.
THEY LET THEY LET US GO ON AND
ON AND IT WAS GOOD IT WAS A
GOOD STRANGE ANY OTHER
COMMUNICATIONS ANYONE ELSE HAVE
ANYTHING THAT THEY NEED TO TALK
ABOUT FOR THE GOOD OF THE ORDER
?
IF NOT I'M GOING TO ASK FOR
YOUR CALL.
OH OK.
WE CAN'T CARRY OUT BUSINESS.
WE CAN'T TALK TO YOU ALL.
DOES THAT MEAN THAT YOU THANK
YOU FOR CALLING MR. YOU ARE YOU
THREATENING TO RIGHT HERE